			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Kumar Sachin
Title of thesis:
Determinants of Indian Migrants’ Success abroad and its Implication for the Home Country Context
		
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
Migration is well discussed in the literature and usually is link to brain drain that shapes some decrease in an economic development and innovation capabilities and competitiveness of countries where brain outflow takes place. It seems to be very important to analyze migration intentions of specialists and review state initiative in order to retain them. However we see that migration is specific issue related to a particular context, based on this, the aim and objectives of the research are defined properly. 
Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
The master’s thesis consists has a logical structure. The first parts are dedicated to literature overview, thus the theoretical result of the work is quite obvious: using literature analysis, the author systematized and structured theoretical approaches, clarified different definitions and theoretical concepts. The next parts describe research methodology: sample, methods and data analysis and findings from empirical study. The last part of the thesis is discussion of findings and results.                                                                                                                     
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
The quality of analytical approach is good. To achieve the goal the author put a certain list of supporting tasks, namely formulated several research questions that guide the empirical research. The author showed the ability to analyse the research problem and formulated tasks for empirical research correlated with research questions.
Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
The quality of selecting research tools and method is appropriate.
Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
The master thesis done by Kumar Sachin can be evaluated as independent originally done. The quality of theoretical conclusions done in the master thesis is appropriate.
Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
The author could analyze the findings in more discussable way and provide better link with practical and theoretical base. The quality of practical conclusions done is appropriate.
Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.

The overall quality of thesis layout is appropriate, however may have better link with the requirements.

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 
The thesis text is original and does not contain elements of plagiarism.


The Master thesis of Kumar Sachin meets the requirements for master thesis of MIM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date	                                                                                       08.06.2023

Scientific Advisor:	                                                                                         Marina O. Latukha,
                                                                                                                  Professor, Doctor of Science

                                                                                                                            	
	
	






 

 





