			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management
Student:
Alisa Smorzh 
Title of thesis:
The influence of entrepreneurial orientation on firms survival: a cross-case analysis of Russian firms
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
The choice of the topic is correctly justified, from the point of view of both its managerial importance, as well as from the perspective of the extant studies on the area. 
The aim and tasks of the thesis are accurately defined. 
This is a topic that is complex, because of the difficulties in identifying entrepreneurial orientation and measuring its effects. Though it is of high actuality from the point of view of the management theory. 
The thesis topic, aim and objectives are, in general, correctly aligned, though the term “influence” might suggest some kind of regression analysis. 
Finally, the topic is also relevant regarding managerial practice in the logistics sector in Russia and in Finland.  

Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.

The logic of the research is, in general, correctly set out. 
The scope is rather ambitious to be completely covered, but it includes the main elements necessary in such an analysis, and it may be considered enough for the goals of a master thesis. 
The theoretical and empirical parts are in general aligned. Although the data available does not enable to establish cause-effect relationships, it does allow testing the existence of a link between the different variables. 
We could also state that this works brings an interesting exercise and practice of management concepts for the student in the context of a master thesis.  

Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.

The objectives are correctly covered by the research and data provided, bearing in mind nonetheless the limited generalizability of the multi-case method. 
The research problem is appropriately formulated and developed, with connexions to relevant and up-to-date literature. 
The work applies correct methods and argumentations. The methodology used is not in any case very creative or among the latest trends, though it is rather enough to address the topic. 

Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.

The author has managed to get access to relevant decisionmakers of important companies in the Russian context. Hence, the choice of the cases seems appropriate and the information provided on each of them interesting. 
Once again, while bearing in mind the limitations of the case-based research, the methodology seems appropriate. 
Regarding the list of references, it is quite complete and up-to-date, though it could have still improved by developing more the part of management theory and also regarding the Russian context and its evolution.  

Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.

The manuscript includes some elements of correct scientific thinking. It correctly justifies the motivations and advantages for the chosen methodology. 
An element that is missing is including the limitations of this methodology in the directions for further research section. 

Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.

It is an interesting work to reflect on how firms can cope with a very challenging and changing context as it has been that of Russia political and economic context in the last three decades. 
It is also relevant that the thesis focuses on firm capabilities, rather than on their resource base, which in principle could be used by small-and-medium enterprises with scarce resources. 

Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
The layout fulfils in general the requirements of master thesis, including the use of tables, figures and references. 

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 

The paper does not appear to contain elements of plagiarism. 


The Master thesis of Alisa Smorzh meets the requirements for master thesis of Master in Management program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.

6 June 2023	

Joan Freixanet, PhD, MBA 






 

 





