			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Philippe R. Terekhov
Title of thesis:
Patterns of integration and cooperation by Russian SMEs in the Agricultural Sector
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
The primary objective of the research is to explore how Russian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the agricultural sector leverage their resources and capabilities to establish networks, collaborate with other firms, and create value within the value chain. This goal is of significant research interest, since, on the one hand, it contributes to understanding the possibility of using various forms of vertical relations between companies, and, on the other hand, contributes to determining measures to improve the efficiency of small businesses.
Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
The master's thesis is well structured. The parts of the chapters are logically interconnected, and their content contributes to the achievement of the research goal. A deep analysis of the literature made it possible to form propositions that were tested during an empirical study.    The discussion was focused on explanation of the patterns of integration and cooperation by Russian SMEs operating in the agricultural sector and the motivations, challenges, and benefits associated with integration strategies, and assess their impact on firm-level performance and competitiveness.                                                 
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
A well-executed analysis of the literature on the problem under study made it possible to identify research gaps. A literature review explores knowledge on integration and cooperation in the agricultural sector, with a focus on Russian SMEs, highlighting gaps in the literature regarding factors influencing integration decisions. The analysis of patterns and approaches, through multiple case studies, contributes to the existing knowledge on integration and cooperation in the agricultural sector, particularly for Russian SMEs. The study provides insights for future research and offers managerial recommendations to enhance integration and cooperation practices in the sector.  
Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
In-depth interviews with relevant economic participants on the different steps of supply chain in agricultural sector get chance to provide a more holistic understanding of what patterns of integration and cooperation amongst SMEs exist and how they are valued from a network theory perspective. Eight Semi-structured in-depth interviews to answer the research questions formed the multiple case study with interviewees based on the selected criteria. The cases have been carefully chosen to represent diverse segments within the agricultural sector, including social catering, dairy farming, fruit farming, wholesaling, livestock processing, and more. These cases provide rich and contextualized data that will be analysed to identify commonalities, differences, challenges, and opportunities related to integration and cooperation.
Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
The author demonstrates the ability to define the research questions, organize the empirical research and
make conclusions. The analysis highlighted the importance of various resources and capabilities, such as 
human capital, expertise, specialization, relationships, and unique products, in facilitating collaboration and enhancing competitiveness. Factors such as meeting customer demand, the value of SME networks, trust and reputation, and government support were identified as influential in shaping patterns of collaboration.
Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
The findings and recommendations of this study provide insights for policymakers, managers, and other stakeholders on how to enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of SME collaboration efforts in the agricultural sector.
Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
The paper is formed and designed in accordance with the required standards.
Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 
The thesis text is original and does not contain elements of plagiarism. The percentage of original text is 88.9%.


The Master thesis of Philippe R. Terekhov meets the requirements for master thesis of MiM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


07.06.2023	

Scientific Advisor:                                                                                                               Associate professor
                                                                                                                                              O. Verkhovskaya								






 

 





