SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management 
Student:
Yao Kewei
Title of thesis:
How Social and Cultural Processes Shape Collaboration in China: A Study of Gender Dynamics in Chinese Virtual Teams 
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
The author examines how gender dynamics shape collaboration among Chinese virtual teams. The novelty of the research is provided by the fact that the findings provide insights into how deeply rooted cultural values around gender are adapted, upheld, or challenged in virtual environments that afford more flexibility in social interaction.
The aim and objectives of the study are clearly formulated. The results obtained are consistent with the stated goal. The researcher aligned the topic, aim and objectives to allow for holistic research.

Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
  The work consists of the following main sections: INTRODUCTION, CHAPTERS, CONCLUSION, LIST OF REFERENCES and APPENDIXES.  The theoretical part and the empirical part are balanced in volume.
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
The problem of study is clearly defined. Problem analysis is conducted on the basis of the latest achievements in the field of research. In the theoretical section the author gives a systematic analysis of the issues associated with
gender dynamics in Virtual Teams. The author tied the main concepts in the logical structure, which allowed them to create a working model of the study.

Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
The author reasonably forms the sample of the study. The ongoing analysis of the data obtained allows them to draw relevant conclusions. The bibliography includes relevant sources.

Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
In the process of working on a Master’s thesis, the author showed himself to be a mature researcher. The  approach is  distinguished by scientific depth and the ability to build a research strategy that ultimately yielded sound scientific data of great value. The author's independent inquisitive thinking is fully consistent with the innovative nature of the topic. 
As a general conclusion it can be said that the work is a holistic study with a systematic study of theoretical issues and systematic collection of empirical information. The results obtained are notable for their novelty and practical significance. The author has shown himself as a thoughtful researcher relevant topics of modern management.

Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
Conceptual and empirical findings are of direct relevance to management practice. The results showed that gender stereotypes are common in virtual teams and often stem from biases in hiring and management. With lack of effective regulation and laws, and missing function from trade union, the situation between employees and companies in China is imbalanced, females are in a much weaker position than other countries. On the other hand, over time, as a unique feature of virtual teams, virtuality could create "gender blur" effect, which could improve the effectiveness of collaboration.

Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
The work has some flaws in the design. But in general, meets the requirements. Graphics and figures are clear and easily readable. The tables contain in structured form relevant information.

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism.
The study is an original text.



The Master thesis of    Yao Kewei    meets the requirements for master thesis of  MIM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date: 09.06.2023 	

Scientific Advisor: 
Zamulin A.L., Senior Lecturer 
OB&HRM Department
				






 

 





