			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Vostrikov Ivan Alexandrovich
Title of thesis:
Influence оf Perceived Business Ecosystem Value оn Intention to Use 
New E-services: The Case Of Yandex
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
The development of business models and the creation of ecosystems is a hot topic in modern management research. The success of an ecosystem is largely determined by the inclusion of new products that can increase the resilience of the system. Presented master thesis aims to investigate factors of evaluation of 
perceived value of digital business ecosystems clients and intention to use services within ecosystem. This allows to state that the aim of the study corresponds to the urgent tasks of increasing the competitiveness and efficiency of ecosystems. The author clearly formulated the purpose and objectives of the thesis and focused the study on generation Z
Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
The research paper is well structured. The paper includes review of the business ecosystem literature, methods and data description, and results and discussions. The parts of the chapters are logically interconnected and their content contributes to the achievement of the research goal. The discussion was focused on explanation of reasons for hypotheses to be rejected, revealing information, which was missed or misinterpreted during the formulation step.                                                             
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
The author substantiated in detail the use of the method he uses to build his research and utilized the Theory of Consumption Values (TCV) to contribute to the ongoing research on consumer behavior within 
digital business ecosystems. The author assumed that the TCV can be applied to comprehend the perceived value in the context of digital business ecosystems. The use of this approach made it possible to formulate research hypotheses, as well as to develop a questionnaire and determine the scales that were used in the study. Based on proposed methodology, theoretical foundations and constructs description, conceptual research model was proposed
Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
The author used the structural equation model (SEM) in order to fully investigate the measurement model, evaluate validity and reliability, look at interaction effects and mediation processes, and evaluate overall fit. The author chose the case of Yandex digital business ecosystems as an example for digital business ecosystems.  The method of data colleting was applied according to the existing studies on consumption values and brand perception, the method included online survey distributed among target audience of generation Z. Online surveys are a common method for hypothesis testing in consumer behaviour research, therefore the developed questionnaire was comprised from previous studies and items for it were adapted for application towards ecosystem products perception.  As the sampling technique, the non-probability purposive sampling was chosen and the sample of 190 usable responses from Generation Z was created. The author used SPSS AMOS software package to perform a confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) to evaluate the measurement model's adequacy. The author demonstrated excellent command of methods of quantitative analysis
Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
This research has made significant contributions to the field of consumer behavior and strategy, specifically in the field of digital business ecosystems and the impact of perceived value on the intention to use new services. By examining theories such as consumption values, business ecosystems, digital addiction, and individual innovativeness, this study has deepened our understanding of these theories and their relevance when applied to Generation Z consumers and ecosystems.
Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
This finding has numerous practical implications for decision-makers as well as important theoretical contributions. Understanding the behaviour characteristics of this generation Z can help companies develop long-term strategic policies in terms of communication and configuration of value propositions
Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
The paper is formed and designed in accordance with the required standards.
Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 
The thesis text is original and does not contain elements of plagiarism. The percentage of original text is 90.1%. Matches are mainly noted in the list of references.


The Master thesis of Vostrikov Ivan meets for master thesis of  Master in Management program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


07.06.2023	

Scientific Advisor:                                                                                                               Associate professor
                                                                                                                                              O. Verkhovskaya			 SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 	






 

 





