			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Golubkova Anastasiia
Title of thesis:
Antecedents and Outcomes of Stigmatization in the Workplace
		
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
Stigmatization is associated with the disapproval of an individual due to existing stereotypes in society. Stigmatized individuals experience status loss and may be discriminated against, especially in the workplace. Sources of stigma (what causes stigma) are different and should be well researched in order to be overcome in an organizational context. Obviously, stigmatization may negatively influence firm performance and shape other barriers for company’s growth. Anastasiia identified existing research gap, proved it by the literature review and formulated research questions that guided her in the empirical part. 
Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
 The master’s thesis has a logical structure. The first part is dedicated to literature overview, thus the theoretical result of the work is quite obvious: using literature analysis and practical examples overview, the author systematized and structured theoretical approaches, clarified different definitions and theoretical concepts. The second part describes research methodology: sample, methods and data analysis and findings from empirical study. The last part of the thesis is discussion of findings and results. Important to mention that literature review done by the author shows her research background: Anastasiia provided very detailed systematization of existing studies.                                                                                                                 
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
The quality of analytical approach is very high. To achieve the goal the author put a certain list of supporting tasks, namely formulated several research questions that guide the empirical research.  The author showed the ability to analyse the research problem and formulated tasks for empirical research correlated with research questions. 
Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
The methodology part is very clear and understandable. The quality of selecting research tools and method is high and data validity is adequacy. Anastasiia did very hard work to get and to analyse the data, so I can conclude that the quality of data gathering is very high.
Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
The master thesis done by A. Golubkova can be evaluated as independent originally done research with the strongest author’ position.  The author shows excellent abilities in problem solving and scientific results analysis. The quality of theoretical conclusions done in the master thesis is very high.

Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
The strong point of master’s thesis is the findings and conclusions that are based on the empirical analysis. Anastasiia can be characterized as result-oriented researcher. The output from her work based on the high level of self-dependency. There is no doubt that the work can be defined as a very interesting research with useful practical orientation. The author made important conclusions and provided the support for all research questions. The quality of practical conclusions done is also very high.


Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.

The overall quality of thesis layout is high and meets all the requirements.

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 
The thesis text is original and does not contain elements of plagiarism.


The Master thesis of Golubkova Anastasiia meets the requirements for master thesis of MIM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date	                                                                                       08.06.2023

Scientific Advisor:	                                                                                         Marina O. Latukha,
                                                                                                                    Professor, Doctor of Science

                                                                                                                            	
	
	






 

 





