SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management 
Student:
IVANOV Aleksandr Andreevich
Title of thesis:
Creation of Anti-Burnout Organizational Climate in Russian Enterprises
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
The goal of the study is to explore the perception of the members of the Russian workforce towards organizational practices aimed at creating anti-burnout organizational climate in terms of the importance and relevance of such practices to the Russian employees 
The aim and objectives of the study are clearly formulated. The results obtained are consistent with the stated goal. The researcher aligned the topic, aim and objectives to allow for holistic research.

Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
  The work consists of the following main sections: INTRODUCTION, THEORETICAL BACKGROUND, THE EMPIRICAL STUDY, BIBLIOGRAPHY, LIST OF REFERENCES and APPENDIXES.  The theoretical part and the empirical part are balanced in volume.
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
The problem of study is clearly defined. Problem analysis is conducted on the basis of the latest achievements in the field of research. In the theoretical section the author gives a systematic analysis of the issues associated with approaches to organizational climate, burnout and how the latter can be prevented through organizational climate. The author tied the main concepts in the logical structure, which allowed them to create a working model of the study.

Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
The author reasonably forms the sample of the study. The ongoing analysis of the data obtained allows them to draw relevant conclusions. The bibliography includes relevant sources.

Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
In the process of organizing and conducting research, the author has shown himself to be a thoughtful researcher, able to find relevant information, process it and interpret it creatively.
.
Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
Conceptual and empirical findings are of direct relevance to management practice. The data received can
be used as a basis for recommendations for HR managers companies seeking to create an organizational
climate that prevents burnout, and analysis, based on various characteristics respondents, allows you to adjust recommendations in accordance with the composition of the working strength.


Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
The work has some flaws in the design. But in general, meets the requirements. Graphics and figures are clear and easily readable. The tables contain in structured form relevant information.

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism.
The study is an original text.



The Master thesis of    IVANOV Aleksandr Andreevich meets the requirements for master thesis of  MIM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date: 09.06.2023 	

Scientific Advisor: 
Zamulin A.L., Senior Lecturer 
OB&HRM Department
				






 

 





