			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Evgeniia Mikheeva
Title of thesis:
THE RELATIONSHIP OF ENTREPRENEURIAL SKILLS AND MOTIVATION TO
SUBSEQUENT VENTURE GROWTH ASPIRATIONS: EVIDENCE FROM GEM DATA
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.

The thesis is devoted to evaluation of the role of entrepreneurial skills and motivation in venture growth aspirations. The aim and objectives are defined clearly. The thesis topic aligns with the aim and objectives, the topic is original. 


Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.

The paper is logically structured. The structural parts are well-connected, following the classical logic of the academic quantitative studies. The proposed hypotheses are justified. 
                                                             
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.

The study employs quantitative research strategy and is based on the relevant statistical tools. The quality of application of the chosen methodology is high.


Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.

The study is based on the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor data which is the world’s largest research project on entrepreneurial activity and intentions. Data validity and accuracy is high. The data are properly described and presented.


Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.

Evgeniia has demonstrated independent scientific thinking and excellent research skills. She developed theoretical model, tested it and came up with the relevant conclusions by herself, based on extant literature and available data.



Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.

The study has practical implications for investors, as Evgeniia has developed guidelines for decision making.


Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.

The layout corresponds to the requirements. 

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 

The thesis is original. The detected borrowings account for only 4%, hence the paper does not contain plagiarism. 



The Master thesis of Evgeniia Mikheeva meets the requirements) for master thesis of Master in Management program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date : 09.06.2023

Karina A. Bogatyreva, Associate Professor, 
Department of Strategic and International Management,
Director of the Center for Entrepreneurship					






 

 





