			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Kirill S. Sokolnikov
Title of thesis:
Closed-end Investment Fund launching Strategy on investment companies’ cases
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.
The search for effective instruments for long-term investments has become highly relevant in Russia. The study of mutual funds is very popular in foreign academic journals, but in Russia there are practically no scientific papers on the economy of mutual funds, the peculiarities of the behavior of investors in it and the strategy of further development. therefore, the work devoted to identifying the possibilities of using this tool by various stakeholders and determining the key success factors for their launch is of significant interest. The goal of the research is clear formulated and addressed a current research gap.
Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.
The master's thesis research paper is well structured. It consists of the introduction, the chapter, where the theoretical background is analyzed, the chapter devoted to data analysis. The discussion on results of the analysis is followed by theoretical and practical implications, and limitations. The parts of the chapters are logically interconnected.                                                               
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.
The analysis of theoretical approaches to the analysis of the activities of closed -end investment funds is the least studied part of the work, but this has an explanation. There is a lack of literature and scientific articles on this topic. 
Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.
The qualitative research method is chosen to respond the research questions. The empirical research consists of three stages: an in-depth interview, its further coding and the use of value chain M. Porter for strategic analysis of financial institutions in order to provide recommendations for improvement. All interviews were conducted according to a previously prepared standardized structure. respondents with 3 roles participated in the survey, each of them was asked different questions. Conducting with three groups of respondents undoubtedly contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the study. The strength of the work is the use of qualitative data analysis methods, which eliminates problems with the generalization of conclusions. 
Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.
The author developed the model of successful launch factors that can be the foundation for further research
in the field of finance and fund economics. Author indicated three groups of factors that are
important to the clients of funds and funds for the successful implementation of their products.
Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.
This study can be useful both for funds and investors, as it aims to reduce the risks of companies to produce products that are not in demand, and to reduce the risks for investors, which include working with unscrupulous companies, buying toxic assets, or the difficulty in terminating a contract with a management company. the company and the further withdrawal of assets and a closed
mutual fund.
Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
In general, the author took into account the rules for the layout of master's theses. 
Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 
The paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. The percentage of original text is 92.4%


The Master thesis of Kirill S. Sokolnikov meets for master thesis of  MIM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


06.06.2023
Scientific Advisor:                                                                                            Associate professor
                                                                                                                            O.Verkhovskaya,
                                                                                                                                          
				






 

 





