			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Emelkhan Khadjiev
Title of thesis:
Factors Influencing on User Choice of Video Streaming Services
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.

The topic of the thesis is original and the motivation is written well. 

Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.

It follows the logical flow required in a master thesis.
                                                             
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.

The student formulated the research questions well and indicated solutions relating to an interesting managerial problem. 


Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.

The research method and data collection are very suitable for the topic. 

The references are relevant and complete.


Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.


The student showed responsibility and independent thinking. 


Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.

The applied part of the thesis meets this requirement. Managerial recommendations stated come directly from the results presented by the student.


Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.
The layout fits the requirements. 

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 
The thesis text is original and does not contain elements of plagiarism.


The Master thesis of _Emelkhan Khadjiev meets  for master thesis of MIM program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date 09-06-2023	

Scientific Advisor: (academic title, name) M. Deniz Dalman, Associate Professor of Marketing				






 

 





