			
SCIENTIFIC ADVISOR’S REFERENCE

Program:
Master in Management (MIM)
Student:
Serafima Shorokhova
Title of thesis:
The role of Entrepreneurial Imaginativeness in sustaining business success through crisis: the case of Russian business owners
	
Justification of the topic choice. Accuracy in defining the aim and objectives of the thesis. Justification of the topic choice; accuracy in defining the aim and tasks of the thesis; originality of the topic and the extent to which it was covered; alignment of the thesis’ topic, aim and objectives.

Serafima’s master thesis is based on a relatively new concept of entrepreneurial imaginativeness which describes one of the key dimensions of the entrepreneurial mindset related to an ability to imagine and hence enact a variety of processes and outcomes. The choice of the topic and the goal of the paper are justified, the relevant objectives are set up and explained.

Structure and logic of the text flow. Logic of research; full scope of the thesis; alignment of thesis’ structural parts, i.e. theoretical and empirical parts.

The structure of the work corresponds to the standards applied to qualitative academic studies. The parts of the paper are logically connected.

                                                             
Quality of analytical approach and quality of offered solution to the research objectives. Adequacy of objectives coverage; ability to formulate and convey the research problem; ability to offer options for its solution; application of the latest trends in relevant research are for the set objectives.

The paper is based on the analysis of qualitative data gathered through two waves of interviews. The thematic analysis and coding were applied. The chosen analytical approach corresponds to the stated goal and objectives. The methodology is generally well applied. 


Quality of data gathering and description. Quality of selecting research tools and methods; data validity adequacy; adequacy of used data for chosen research tools and methods; completeness and relevance of the list of references.

The choice of data corresponds to the goal and objectives. The interview guide to collect the qualitative data was developed based on the extant literature. 


Scientific aspect of the thesis. Independent scientific thinking in solving the set problem/objectives; the extent to which the student contributed to selecting and justifying the research model (conceptual  and/or quantitative), developing methodology/approach to set objectives.

Serafima has shown independent scientific thinking in achieving her research objectives. Moreover, she developed an empirical model that can further be tested and refined, hence the theoretical contribution is significant.



Practical/applied nature of research. Extent to which the theoretical background is related to the international or Russian managerial practice; development of applied recommendations; justification and interpretation of the empirical/applied results.

The study informs practitioners on the role of personal traits in the entrepreneurial process. The empirical results are discussed and justified in the paper.


Quality of thesis layout. Layout fulfils the requirements of the Regulations for master thesis preparation and defence, correct layout of tables, figures, references.

The layout corresponds to the requirements. 

Originality of the text. All sources of match identified by the Safe Assign system follow the allowed cases, the paper does not contain any elements of plagiarism. 

The text is original. Borrowings account for 3.5% only. Thus, the paper does not contain plagiarism.


The Master thesis of Serafima Shorokhova meets the requirements for master thesis of Master in Management program thus the author of the thesis can be awarded the required degree.


Date : 07.06.2023

Karina A. Bogatyreva, Associate Professor, 
Department of Strategic and International Management,
Director of the Center for Entrepreneurship			






 

 





